This is a typical British terraced house.
It was built around the turn of the twentieth century
of brick, cement and a lot of handwork.
Kitchen, living room and a staircase in the middle
that brings you upstairs to two bedrooms and a bathroom.
And although the exact details may differ
one in five houses in Britain looks something like this,
neatly in a row.
The problem, however, is; houses like this are not built to save energy
or to keep the heat on a cold winter day.
Energy saving was not really a thing a century ago
and while there are a lot of ideas about modernizing older homes
How do you find out which of those ideas work?
How do you do a controlled experiment?
if every house is different and the weather changes daily?
Would not it be great if you, let's say
the sun could command?
We are here in the Salford Energy House
that the only building is in a climate-controlled room.
The idea was actually to look at how one
to make a Victorian house more energy-efficient
For example, if you subject a boiler to a test
then it is in a laboratory and X% will be efficient.
While, if that boiler puts in a house or complete system
it will be influenced by all sorts of other things
such as the building materials, radiators, the way it is operated,
so understand how things react when they are in a complete home
is very, very important.
This is not a modern copy of an old terraced house, built with new techniques.
This is an authentic corner house, originally in Manchester.
It was demolished brick by brick and rebuilt here
in an environment-controlled test room at the University of Salford.
We needed the help of a 70-year-old bricklayer,
because the way of bricklaying during Victorian times
today is no longer used.
He told us that he last had that brickwork that way when he was still in training.
The house is full of hundreds of sensors.
Every device is monitored separately.
We can even simulate human activity.
We have controlled door closers, robots actually,
who can imitate the opening and closing of doors, windows, refrigerators and so on.
We can switch household appliances on and off.
We can check the weather in this room.
Next to it is a room with a huge water tank
and there are whole layers of piping around the room
spraying rain against the house
because rain never falls straight down but comes from the side
And we even have a snow machine,
and a wind turbine,
and a whole lighting system
These are heat radiation lamps connected to a lighting installation as used in theaters
so that the sun can reach all sides of the house.
All these things are very important for the functioning of a building.
At the first big test we did, where we took care of the whole house,
we insulated the walls, improved the doors and the windows
and the floor adjusted.
We have been able to reduce energy consumption by 60%.
Concessions will always have to be made with this kind of experiment
And yes, warm up and cool a building
while it is in a different building
is not very energy-intensive in itself,
but compared to other industrial processes
it is not that bad yet.
And if you use a little bit of energy here, we can make hundreds of homes more efficient
Then it is probably worth it.
Thanks to everyone at the Energy House
and the University of Salford School of Built Environment.
Here you can find their Youtube channel
and you will find more information in the description.